[MUSIC]
Stanford University.
>> Okay, hi everyone.
It's exciting, right?
We're in week ten, everyone's really
excited for the end of the class.
Well, thank you so much for
the people who did turn up in person to
see this last week's lecture I guess.
Rich and me both have one lecture each,
with me doing the Tuesday and Thursday.
I suspect that there probably a few
people who we won't be seeing today.
Who are trying to catch up
on their final projects.
I'm sure every one of them
will watch the video and
catch up on what they
miss during spring break.
But, for those of you who are here or
watching.
Here's what we're gonna have today.
I wanted to sort of try and
say a little bit about
sort of bigger picture
solving needs of language.
And where things might be heading or
should be heading.
I wanted to kind of come back and
say a bit more about some of
the tree structured model ideas.
And how those might be reinterpreted in
a different context at the high level of
language.
And then something that's in
the same vein as that is for
our research highlight today.
Zhedi is then gonna be talking about this
kind of interesting model out of Berkeley.
For learning to compose for
question answering.
And then for the end part of it, there
are kind of a couple of things that we
haven't said very much about in the class.
Which I thought I should just say a bit
more about before the class ends so
we'll talk about character based models.
Okay, quickly the reminders.
Well, best of luck in finishing your
assignment four or your final project.
So, I mean,
there's sort of a subtle balance.
But in terms of what you're doing, I mean,
you should be making sure you kind of have
solid baselines and well-trained models.
It's obviously good to be
investigating fancy architectures.
But if they're sort of not working at
all or it seems like they're working
very badly it's sort of always
hard to work out where things are.
So especially if it's a different problem,
well you sort of wanna know, well.
How much would you get if you just ran
a bigram logistic regression on this?
And then, is there reasonable evidence
that this neural model was well trained?
So it's not that you have to sort of
infinitely tune your hyper parameters.
But we sort of hope that you have
sort of reasonably solid models.
If you're having any problems do try and
get some help.
I know there are a lot of people
going to office hours today.
So tonight Richard is again having
infinite project office hours so
feel free to come by.
Depending, you can either go home and have
dinner and come back at 10 PM probably and
he'll still be there.
[LAUGH]
Make sure you're in the queue.
And then sort of, finally,
for Microsoft Azure, so
I mean Microsoft's really been super
generous at giving us more GPU hours.
And so we've got a fresh,
new allotment of GPU hours.
And I guess this afternoon I was trying
to top up various people's accounts.
But in general it's kind of easiest for
everybody if your account
doesn't run out of credits.
Because then it gets cancelled,
and you get locked out, and
we have to reactivate and
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Really if you sort of know you want to do
something that takes more credits than
you have.
Feel free to get in contact
on piazza beforehand.
Preferably don't just email
me cuz in the good case,
one of the TAs, James or
Nish do it rather than me.
Okay, so
a kind of interesting thing that's
happened in the last couple of years.
Is that a lot of the key deep learning
people have really sort of redirected
their mission.
With this idea they could
sort of solve language.
So historically, most of deep
learning came out of vision, and
vision really dominated in deep learning.
But for a couple of interesting reasons,
sort of the same people that were the sort
of most key deep learning people.
Such as Yann LeCun and
the others, and Geoff Hinton.
Yoshua Bengio,
really they've all considerably redirected
their research programs towards language.
And so here's just sort of one
random sort of business mag quote
from businessinsider.com.
Which shows how this is sort
of panning out in practice.
So Yann LeCun is quoted as saying.
The role of FAIR, Facebook AI Research, is
to advance the science and the technology
of AI and do experiments that demonstrate
that technology for new applications like
computer vision, dialogue systems,
virtual assistants, speech recognition,
natural language understanding,
translation, things like that.
And the thing that's sort of
really surprising about that list.
Is, well okay the first application
he mentions is computer vision.
And he is a 20 year computer vision guy so
that may be not too surprising.
But if you keep on reading
after the first application.
Every other application he mentions
is a natural language application.
Dialogue systems, virtual assistants,
speech recognition,
natural language understanding,
translation.
They're all language applications.
And I think coming off of that
that sort of many people who
haven't been long term language people.
Kind of feel that language will
have a kind of an image net moment.
Where somehow someone builds a big
enough complex enough neural network.
That kind of the task will just be
sort of measurably solved in one step.
I kind of think actually that's
probably not gonna happen.
Because I kinda think there are so many
different language phenomena and tasks.
That there's sort of just no one task.
That can really sort of have
the same kind of seminal, okay,
we've solved natural
language understanding.
And so I wanted to,
with respect to that, sort of mention
a couple of things of what has
been lost from old NLP work.
So I think there's actually kind
of an interesting contrast.
If you go back to the sort of good old
fashioned AI work in natural language
processing versus a lot of
what you see more recently.
And that is if you sort of look back and
sort of 80s, 70s,
natural language processing work,
that these people had really lofty goals.
That their goal was to sort of really
have human level language understanding.
Now, actually what they could do
is extremely, extremely modest.
But nevertheless the contrast is,
it sort of seems like here we are today.
We have much better realities as
to the kind of things we can do.
But it's not always clear that
everyone's reaching for the stars.
As opposed to just thinking, okay, well
we can run an LSTM on this language data.
And that'll sort of work reasonably
well and not try to get beyond that.
So I thought it might be good just to
have a few slides at the beginning.
Sort of looking at a bit
of older NLP work.
And seeing if there are things that we
could kind of see and learn from that.
And so I chose as my example
Peter Norvig's Ph.D thesis.
So probably most of you vaguely at
least know who Peter Norvig is.
Because of the textbook on what
is Artificial Intelligence and
the Modern Approach,
Russell and Norvig's book.
He's worked for many years as
a director of research at Google.
And so it's just past the 30th anniversary
of Peter's PhD thesis which was in
natural language understanding.
It was called A Unified Theory of
Inference for Text Understanding.
Well, what you'll find if
you look in his thesis?
I mean, in terms of the actual
language processing and
language understanding
what's in the thesis.
I mean, in some sense,
there's shockingly little of that.
So for the work for his entire thesis,
there is only one piece of real,
natural language that's analyzed
in the entire dissertation.
All the rest of it is sort of toy
examples like Bill had a bicycle.
John wanted it, he gave it to him,
and trying to analyze stuff like that.
Actually, a bit reminiscent of the kind
of baby sentences that Facebook AI
research lately came out with, but this is
the once piece of real natural language
that's analyzed in the dissertation
which comes from a children's story.
In a poor fishing village built on
an island not far from the coast of China,
a young boy named Chang Lee
lived with his widowed mother.
Every day, little Chang bravely set off
with his net, hoping to catch a few fish
from the sea which they could sell and
have a little money to buy bread.
But the interesting thing is that these
are sort of some of things that Norvig
said, we should be able to get out of
this text and I think many of these or
at least half of these are things
that we're still not very good at.
Actually, the first half.
So, he's hoping to get out.
There is a sea, which surrounds
the island is used by the villagers for
fishing and
forms part of the coast of China.
So, there's a sort of interpretive
understanding of the relations
that are involved.
And in particular, the relationship
between the sea and China is quite
distant in the text and sort of
mediated by the existence of the coast.
That's the kind of stuff
we're still not very good at.
Chang intends to trap fish in his net,
which is a fishing net.
Again, that sort of interpretive stuff.
So, there's sort of this leap of he's
set off with his net hoping to catch
a few fish from the sea.
So it never actually says that he's
gonna catch fish with the net, but
any human being would
interpret it that way.
And again, that's sort of the kind of
interpretive language that we still aren't
very good at dealing with.
The other two actually much easier.
The word which refers to the fish, the
word they refers to Chang and his mother.
We talked about things like that.
So in terms of how he's gonna do this,
I mean,
interestingly, the kind of perspective
in the 80s was just completely
diametrically opposed to
what it is these days.
I mean, in the 1980s,
it was sort of believed,
sort of just as an assumption that was
beyond question that the only way that you
were going to do any kind of natural
language understanding was to have
a knowledge base that you
could work with and reason on.
So on page four of the thesis, he takes
it as established as we have just seen.
A suitable knowledge base
is a prerequisite for
making proper inferences and that was sort
of just no more of an argument than look,
we need to make inferences
between these facts to understand
that the net is gonna be
used to catch the fish.
Therefore, we need a knowledge
base to do it over.
Where it's sort of what's happened in
the last two decades is to sort of show
that there's actually a lot of natural
language that you can understand and
do without having any knowledge base, and
just working on fairly surface forms.
So in his thesis,
he outlines six forms of inference and
tries to build a natural language
understanding system that
embodies them and will be able to
make inferences over that passage.
Two of them come in pairs, so
there are four basic types.
So, one is elaboration.
And so, that's working out
how to connect to entities.
So this example is John got a piggy
bank for the reason of having money for
the reason of buying a present, but
the example from the previous slide
was he had the net with him for
the reason of helping catch the fish.
And so, you have to sort of do
this contextual elaboration.
The second one is reference resolution.
That's really the only one of
these that we've talked about and
we know how to do that one, and
we can do that one pretty well today.
The third one is related
to the interpretation
of metaphor and
abstract forms from language.
So that if you have a sentence like
the Red Sox killed the Yankees,
that doesn't mean that they went out
murdering them with knifes and guns.
It means that they defeated
them convincingly.
And so,
language is full of that kind of metaphor.
But all the time,
we're sort of using physical
metaphors which are having these
sort of abstract interpretations.
And so another part of his dissertation
was sort of trying to work out how you
derived those abstract interpretations,
then the third one is sort of
an interesting one that a lot of the time
that I think we don't think of as much,
but is actually I think quite
important and that's concretization.
And so, that this is you solve goal
from a general description to much
more specific form of that.
So if you know someone is traveling in
automobile, then you know that the kind of
traveling that at least one of the people
is doing is driving the automobile,
at least until our autonomous
cars get a bit better.
And so, there's that kind of
concretization that you'll need to be able
to do more fine grained inferences
in the state of knowledge.
So, that's kind of interesting.
There are ways in which we've
made enormous progress.
So in Norvig's thesis, the situation
is essentially that they don't
have syntactic parsers that's good
enough that they can actually parse
sentences they'd like to
parse like that story.
So he describes how Wilensky,
that's his dissertation advisor's.
PHRAN program was used where
possible to pause sentences.
But for some input,
PHRAN was not up to the task, so
we constructed the representation
to sentence by hand instead.
Well, you know we're
actually better than that.
We can actually parse
sentences pretty well now.
But once you're starting to do the kind
of elaborations to do the sort of things
that were being talked about as other
goals, these are kind of things that
most of NLP still hasn't gotten to, and
maybe should be starting to get to.
So, I think there's still sort of big
things that we still need to do in NLP.
On the one hand, I mean,
it's just true that in the last few years,
there's been these exciting times and a
lot of systems have gone a lot better and
there's sort of this sense that BiLSTMs
with attention are sort of taking over
the field of natural language processing,
because you can try them on any task and
they work better than what people used
to do and you can even use them for
surprising things.
You can just use a BiLSTM for attention.
As that's gonna be your natural language
parser, it works surprisingly well.
So, they seem good.
Another thing that's really exciting
that's happened is these neural
methods have just clearly led to a
renaissance in language generation tasks.
So any task where you actually have to
generate pieces of natural language where
that's the sort of generation
side machine translation,
the generation side of dialogue.
Answering a question, doing summarization.
That all of those feels the generation
sides of things were sort of
Fairly moribund in the first decade of
the 2000s where now it just seems like,
we have these fantastically
good neural language models.
That we can configure in different
ways and we can do really exciting and
nice language generation.
All those fields have sort of
been springing to life lately.
And it's also sorta super
interesting time, scientifically,
because I think sorta most of
natural language processing
has just sort of been this assumption
that we need to be building particular
kinds of representations of language and
working with them.
So we want to have sort of
syntactic representations.
And often we want to have above those
things like semantic frames to represent
events and relations in language.
And so we're sort of building
explicit localist language knowledge
representations.
Where it's what some of the recent work
such as the stuff that Richard was talking
about last week was showing is that it now
seems that there are a lot of situations
in which we can build these end to end
deep learning systems that don't have any
of these kind of explicit localist
knowledge representations that actually
work very nicely.
But on the other hand,
there are a lot of things that we
still I think have barely
scratched the surface off.
So one of those is we still kind
of have very primitive means for
building and
accessing memories or knowledge.
So yes, there's been a lot of work
with LSTMs where the M is memory and
memory networks and
other things like that.
But really all of those are models of
sort of very recent short term memory.
That's the ST in the LSTM.
They're not really models of
how like human beings that we
can have years of experience of
our lives stored in our heads.
And we can flexibly sort of bring forth
relevant facts at the right time,
that all they're doing is a sort of
linear scan of what's happened in
the last 100 words or something like that.
So that's pretty poor.
Another thing that's pretty poor
is we don't really have much
in the way of models that let us
formulate goals or formulate plans.
And really, if you're going to do a lot
of things in conversation like have
a meaningful dialogue, you sort of have
to have some goals and plans that yes,
you can just be shooting the breeze.
But a lot of the time,
you wanna accomplish things which leads
to sub tasks, and things like that.
Another area where we're still really
bad is we're just sort of pretty
bad at inter-sentential relationships.
So once we're inside one sentence
the structure is usually pretty clear and
we can work with that.
But once we sort of try and reason
between sentences or between clauses and
understand the relationships,
we're usually pretty poor at that still.
And we still can't do many of
those things that Peter Norvig was
talking about, right?
That if we wanna do
elaborations in the situation
using common sense knowledge that's not
really the kind of thing that we've been
able to build deep learning
systems to do so far.
Okay, so that's the end of part one.
So, for part two of today,
I wanted to sort of say a bit more
about tree-structured models.
And then sort of talk about a bit of
recent work that was done by a recent
student of mine, Sam Bowman,
along with Jean Gaultier
on sort of having more efficient ways
of doing tree-structured models.
So for my linguistic self,
I still think sort of having these sort of
constituent pieces that you can
build representations of which gives
you kind of a tree structure is
roughly the right kind of model.
And so up until now, I'd sort of
shown some examples of bits of syntax
and looking inside
the sentiment of clauses.
Here's another nice
example that was some work
that was done at Maryland by
Mojita Iya and his fellow students.
And so what they were wanting to do,
is the learning models of
the political ideology
of pieces of language.
And so pieces of language could either
be mutual which is shown in gray or
they could have liberal or conservative
pieces of political ideology and
that wasn't just done at sort of
a whole paragraph or sentence level.
In particular,
they were able to sort of build this
hierarchical constituent model where
you could label pieces of rhetoric or
ideology as conservative or
liberal inside sentences.
So we have examples like this one.
They dubbed it the death tax and
created a big lie about its adverse
effects on small businesses.
And so the model is picking out death
tax as a term of conservative ideology,
and its adverse effects
on small businesses.
So that's conservative ideology language.
But then when you're sort of putting that
together, interestingly it seems to have
learned that putting scare
quotes around death tax,
it then regards that as
a piece of liberal ideology.
[LAUGH] But beyond that once you get up
to the whole sentence representation,
when it's they dubbed it the death tax,
that that's then being regarded as
sort of a piece of liberal ideology, of
representing the opposite point of view.
Here's one other example that
shows the same kind of thing.
But taxpayers do know already that TARP,
so that was the recovery
program beginning of the Obama
administration, was designed in a way that
allowed the same corporations who were
saved by huge amounts of taxpayer money to
continue to show the same arrogant traits
that should've destroyed their companies.
So this bit here,
the huge amounts of taxpayer money is
being identified as conservative ideology.
And then it's being embedded in this
sentence which is again showing liberal
ideology.
Yeah I cannot explain that,
I mean it seems like it should've
been colored gray, yeah.
[LAUGH] These models
aren't always perfect,
they try with some inference or something.
Yeah, I don't know.
And even saved, it's not very clear,
that's what we get out.
Okay, so, those were our kind of
tree recursive neural networks.
So I think that theoretically appealing.
They can be empirically
competitive especially if
you don't have 100 million
words of data to train on.
But in most circles they've
sort of fallen out of favor,
and that's because they have
some big disadvantages.
So they're often prohibitively slow.
Most often they've been used
with an external parser,
although you can use them
to parse as you go, but
I guess that contributes to
them being prohibitively slow.
And you could also think that although
there's something nice about these
tree-structured models,
you might actually wonder if
are they missing out on something.
Cuz even though it makes sense that
there's sort of this tree structure of
language, language does also
have a linear structure.
You do sort of say these strings
of words that go left to right.
And something that people have
often observed is if you only
have tree-structured models, you then
have words that should be very close to
each other that end up very distant from
each other in any kind of tree structure.
And so actually the model I'm about to
talk of ends up having both tree structure
and linear structure.
Why are the tree-structured models so
badly performing?
And essentially, the reason is
they're not well suited to the kind of
batch computations on GPUs, which is
really the sort of centerpiece of what's
allowed sort of efficient training
of large deep learning models.
So if you have a sequence model,
a sequence model can
only have one structure.
You're going from left to right, and
you're computing hidden stuff
above each word in turn.
And because of that, you can take a whole
bunch of sentences, preferably of
similar lengths, and run them through and
lock step in the sequence model.
And that's really efficient.
And the problem is if you wanna do
that with TreeRNNs, that you get this
input specific structure, that every
sentence has a different structure.
And so that undermines your ability to do
batched computation because you're still
trying to construct different structural
units in the different sentences.
And what happens with GPU code,
if you've got a batch of sentences and
each one has different structure,
what it does is of your 32 threads,
one of them is computing and
the other one of 31 are idle.
Every time that there's
something different being done
on one thread versus the other threads,
and so that kills all your efficiency.
So Sam and John and co were sort
of trying to then work out well,
could we come up with
a different form of model,
which is at least closer to
the efficiency of a sequence model,
while still giving us the benefits
of tree-structured representation.
And that led to the Shift-reduce
Parser-Interpreter Neural Network or
SPINN model.
So the base model is
equivalent to a TreeRNN, but
because it's better for batch computation,
you can't completely get rid of the fact
that they're different structures.
It's better for batch computation.
It can be sort of 25 times faster or
more, depending on the kind of data.
And it also provide an opportunity
to do a sort of a mixed linear and
tree-structured model that can
be used alone without a parser.
So, it's kind of a nice integrated model,
and I just wanna show you a bit of that.
And the starting point of it is
essentially exactly the same as
the dependency parsers that we saw
in assignment two and in class.
So for any piece of tree structure,
you can describe a tree structure
as uniquely as a sequence of shifts and
reduces.
So for this structure on the left,
all right, you're gonna take the and cat,
shift on twice.
Then you reduce them once
to put them together.
You shift,
shift to get sat down on the stack.
You reduce once,
you reduce the second time.
And so this sequence of shifts and reduces
corresponds to this tree structure.
And every other sequence
of shifting reduces,
well, either corresponds to a different
tree structure or is invalid.
All right, if you start off
trying to reduce before you've
got nothing on the stack, you can't do it.
And so what we can do is that we
can build a model that's sort of
acting like a transition based
parser in shifting and reducing.
And so it's gonna have a sequence
model in the middle of it.
But that sequence model is then gonna
be looking at a buffer of words yet
to be dealt with and maintaining a stack.
And inside the stack,
there's gonna be composition,
kind of like a TreeRNN, or not really,
"kinda like" exactly like a TreeRNN,
which will build TreeRNN representations.
So at each point,
our LSTM model is tracking along, and
it's predicting which thing to do,
reduce or
shift, kind of just like
the dependency parsers that you build.
And so depending on what it
does when things reduce, you're
then doing a composition operation on
the stack, which is reshaping the stack.
And while having this tracking
LSTM is both a simple parser and
it gives us this kind of sequence
context that we can just,
sort of, also model the sequence of words.
So the essence of getting
this to work well is,
how can you implement
the stack efficiently?
Because if the stack was just like this,
and you've sort of got a stack for
each time step, and the stack changes.
Well, then you'd use a vast amount
of memory in the stack because
you've got a different complete
stack at each time step.
And there would also be bad for
achieving this lock step advance that will
make computation efficient on a GPU.
So that's sort of bad in various ways, so
the secret of getting it to work pretty
well is to say actually, for each
sentence, we're only gonna have one stack.
And we're gonna incrementally
sort of build up representations
on the stack as we go.
And so it's using an efficient
kind of data structure,
which is similar to data
structures used elsewhere.
They're sometimes called zipper data
structures and things like that.
They're also using programming
language techniques.
So, the idea is like this, so we wanna
build up the structure of Spot sat down.
And so when we start shifting,
we have this one stack,
which we start shifting words on to,
Spot sat down.
And so there's only ever one stack, but
then on this side,
we maintain some backpointers.
And these backpointers
read from right to left is
sort of telling us what's
on top of the stack.
So at the moment,
3 is on top of the stack, followed by 2.
So then when do a reduce operation,
we don't delete things
off the stack,
we just write a new thing on to the stack.
So we compute using our composition
operation in the TreeRNN style.
A representation of the sat down, and we
simply change our backpointers, and say,
okay, now, we've got 1, 4 on the stack.
So 4 is the top of a stack, and
1 is the other thing on the stack.
And so then when we, again, do a reduce,
we compute a representation
of the (Spot (sat down)).
And our backpointers say 5 is
the only active part of the stack.
And the crucial thing is in these
backpointers allow us to know what's where
on the stack when we do operations.
But in terms of our vectors that we're
using inside our forward pass and
our backward pass,
all of the vectors are in this array here.
And so we only have sort
of one array per sentence
that we're sort of
incrementally building up.
Yes?
Yes, it does.
Yeah.
So, well I mean, it clearly needs to
back propagate through it, right?
Cuz it's wanting to learn
composition functions, right?
So it's going to be sort of
learning a matrix representation as
to how to combine these two words.
And then your question is how,
and at that point,
I have to give a sort of an answer of,
gee, this was done with supervision.
So the reason you'd think it wouldn't be
differentiable is, you'd think, okay,
there's a choice at different points.
That's where there's a shift or reduce.
And if that's a hard decision, then
that introduces a non-differentiability.
Now, the way we did things in this
was sort of to take it in roundabout
round that.
So if we train the model at training
time on sentences that had parses,
we could compute.
Then there's no non-differentiability,
and we could
compute the composition functions, and
we could learn to predict the actions.
And so in some sense,
that's the easy way to do it,
which avoids the non-differentiability.
If you didn't wanna do that and
you actually sorta wanted to say,
let's have this uncertainty
while you're learning,
then you'd have to do
something more complex.
And that then leads into ideas,
like reinforcement learning or Or
some of the other estimators that
have been tried recently like the straight
through estimator where effectively,
although the model makes hard
decisions on the forward pass.
You're using a kind of a soft
logistic function in the backward
pass to do the differentiation.
But doing this kind of model compared
to a traditional LSTM, sorry,
compared to a traditional
tree with recurrent
neural network is actually
sort of super efficient.
So, this sort of shows for
different batch sizes.
And obviously, it's going well out in
the batch sizes, but sort of shows
the general point that traditionally
sort of tree recursive models and
just sort of really inefficient that
you don't kind of get a good batch
speed up effect, because you got
different operations at every time
whereas the dotted line is just
an LSTM which is super efficient.
And although this model starts
to curve up to in the blue and
it has to curve up, because you are doing
different operations on the stack.
It's sort of just way, way more efficient
out to quite large batch sizes.
So Sam was then working to use this
model on natural language inference and
I think we haven't talked much about
natural language inference, but
I know it's come up for some of you
that look at the fake news challenge and
things like that, cuz I and
others have pointed people out of it.
So the idea of the natural language
inference was you have a piece of text and
then you have a hypothesis following
it and you're wanting to say,
whether the hypothesis follows from
the piece of text is an entailment.
So for
a man rides a bike on a snow covered road,
then a man is outside,
that's an entailment.
By the way, it's a contradiction.
So for
man in an apron is shopping at a market,
that contradicts a man in
an apron is preparing dinner or
whether it's neutral which means it's
neither an entailment or contradiction.
So two female babies eating
chips is neutral with respect
to two female babies are enjoying chips,
cuz they may or
may not be enjoying them
even if they're eating them.
So we collected this large corpus
SNLI of these kind of sentences and
the way we constructed that was we
started off with one of the vision and
language databases, MS COCO where there
is a picture and the sentence describe.
A man rides a bike on a snow covered road
and we wanted to sorta have something
where the scene was a description
of a picture, cuz that meant there
was sort of a concrete thing that
the sentences were described.
So that would hope to avoid there
be uncertainty of reference, but
then we collected this sort of
hypothesis from Turkers and
the Turkers weren't
actually shown the photo.
They were just shown the passage and then
they were meant to generate sentences or
entailments, neutrals or
contradictions and
then we're trying to build systems that
do that and this has been a quite good
task that a whole bunch of other
groups that then try to do better on.
For what we were doing, we're kind of
interested in this idea of coming up with
sentence representations by building
them as recursive neural networks.
And so, the models we were building
was using spin model rules to build
representation for each sentence and
then running it through comparison neural
network layers to find the whole sentence
meaning at the center's relationships.
So, we have one spin model for
representation.
This sentence one for that one and
then we're sticking it
through a neural network,
which is then giving a probability
distribution of the three actions.
So after having being through the spin
model, we have a couple of fully connected
neural network layers and then you've
got a Softmax over the three decisions.
And so,
here are a couple of results from this.
So there's sort of some previous results,
but
the sort of things that are kind
of interesting here is this
is LSTM RNN sequence model
that has accuracy of 80.6%.
Some of surprisingly and
somewhat disappointingly,
over this quite large dataset, so
it sort of half a million samples.
The tree model actually barely does better
than that, so it's performance was 80.9%.
Whereas relative my argument,
you'd hope for more gains.
Something that's interesting is having
both at once, the sequence model and
the tree structure model.
That actually seems to be rather nice and
give you kind of a nice
gain on this model.
I should mention having whole sentence
representation isn't the best way
to do task like the sort of SNLI,
entailment contradiction task.
I mean, as comes up In a whole bunch of
these tasks in a lot of recent work that
if you wanna do even
better at these tasks,
you'd just do better using attention
models to make alignments at the word
level between the different sentences.
And if you do that,
you can do several percent better as
people have shown in recent results.
But nevertheless, I still do believe
in the sort of tree structured idea and
you can sort of see places where
having the tree representations allows
you to get things right that you just
don't get right in the LSTM model.
So when there are finer grain
semantic facts, such as negation,
gymnast completes her floor exercise,
gymnast cannot finish her exercise.
Well, then then tree
structure model is better.
It also turns out to be differentially
better when you just have very long
examples, which the LSTM
gets less good at.
I finished part one.
And so, we now hand over
to the research highlight.
[INAUDIBLE] Zhedi.
>> So today, we'll discuss how to compose
neural networks for question answering.
So as a high-level overview,
the papers talk about a compositional,
attentional for answering questions about
a variety of world representations,
including images and
also structured knowledge bases.
The model has two components,
trained jointly.
The first complement is
a collection of neural
modules that can be freely composed.
The figure shows actually four modules,
a lookup module,
a relate module, an and
module and also a find module and
the second component is a network
layout predictor that assembles
modules into complete deep networks
tailored to each question.
So, our current query is
what cities are in Georgia?
And the figure shows the network
layout for that particular query.
Essentially, the model
has two distributions.
A layout model that chooses a layout for
sentence and
also an execution model that
applies the network specified
by a particular layout to
a world representation.
We'll start from the Layout Model.
So in order to obtain from the Layout
Model, there are three steps to take.
First, we want to represent the input
sentence as a dependency tree.
So the figure shows that dependency tree
for the query, what cities are in Georgia?
The second step is to associate
fragments of the dependency parse
with appropriate modules.
So as we can see in this figure, the find
module is associated with city, the relate
module is associated with in and the
lookup module is associated with Georgia.
And the last step is to assemble
fragment into full layouts.
It should be noted that each sentence
could have multiple layouts.
So for our example,
one candidate layout is shown there.
It's a tree structure with the and
module as a root module.
And now, we will just talk about
how to score the kind of layouts.
So, in order to score a kind of layout,
we need to produce an LSTM
representation of the question.
A feature based representation
of the query and
pass both representations
through a multilayer perceptron.
And then, the update to the layout
scoring model at each time step
is simply the gradient of
the log-probability of the chosen layout,
scaled by the accuracy of
that layout's predictions.
And now,
just talk about the execution model.
So, given the layout as shown in figure b,
we could basically assemble
the corresponding modules into a full
neural network, as showing in figure c.
And we'll just apply it to a knowledge
source as shown in figure d.
And basically, we should note that
immediate results flow between
modules until your answer
is produced at the root.
So in this case,
Atlanta is produced as the root
which is also the answer to our query,
what cities are in Georgia?
So essentially,
modules are just like small neural
components that take inputs or
intermediate results.
The slide now is showing a lookup
module,whose expression is
also coloured in red.
And the lookup module basically
just produces an attention focused
entirely at the index f(i).
Where you can just think of
the relationship f between words and
positions in the input map as some sort
of string matches on database fields.
And, we also have a relate module.
So, the relate module is
a softmax that directs focus from
one region of the input to another.
The find module is sort of
similar to the relate module.
It's also a softmax but it computes
a distribution or an indices by
concatenating the parameter argument with
each position of the input feature map.
And passing the concatenated to the
vectors through a multilayer perceptron.
So, the last module is the and Module.
Typically the and Module is at
the root of our dependency part tree.
And for the and Module is sort of
similar to a set intersection but
it's used for attentions.
And is actually probabilities
are multiplied together.
For the and Module.
In order to train an execution model,
we need to maximize the sum of log
probability of answer labels given a world
representation over a particular layout.
And so our model actually achieves
State of the art performance,
on both images and
also structure knowledge basis.
So, we'll start from looking at how it
performs on a visual question answering
dataset.
So, the model is actually able to
figure out what's in the sheep's ear
is actually a tag, it's gonna small but
it's actually a tag it's also able to
figure out the color of
the robe the woman is wearing.
And for the third image,the model
is not able to figure out that
a man is dragging a boat, but
it says the man is dragging
a board,which is fairly close,
so it's pretty amazing.
And in terms of the numbers, so we can
see the model out of all the approaches
it has the highest test set accuracy on
the available question answering dataset.
And the model can also do
like general knowledge-based
type of question answering.
So in this case, the model is actually
able to figure out what national parks and
in Florida, and
also whether Key Largo is an island.
So, also in terms of numbers,
the model does really well.
It actually beat every other
approach by at least 3%.
So, this is really amazing model.
And I will definitely recommend you to
take a look at the paper, and that's it.
Thanks.
[APPLAUSE]
>> Okay, thank Zhedi.
Okay, so then for my remaining
time on the stage this quarter,
I wanted to just sort of say a bit
more about a couple of things that
I think of vaguely come up
at some point or another,
but haven't really very
prominently come up.
I mean, the first one is just
a very brief cameo appearance.
But, I just so wanted to say a fraction
more about pointer copying models,
just so that that idea's in your head.
So, Richard sort of talked about a version
of these a long time ago, when he
sort of told a bit about his group's
work on Pointer Sentinel mixture models.
And I just want to sort of repeat
the idea of this as sort of one of
the other ideas that people have been
using a bit in recent neural networks.
So, one of the central papers is this
one on pointing the unknown words.
And this diagram is a bit
confusing to read because for
some reason they sort of did it backwards.
So the source is on the right side,
and the target is on the left side.
But, the idea here is so
that for the source sequence,
right, that we're assuming that
we've run a bidirectional LSTM, or
something like that,
over the source words.
And then, we're in the kind of
usual kind of generational LSTM,
where what we've done is sort of,
we've got some hidden state.
And then, we go to be sorta starting
to generate the next word based on it.
And then how is that gonna be done?
So, we've had already the ideas
that you can just sort of
generate from the hidden state,
based on a softmax.
And we've had the idea that you could kind
of use an attention model to sort of look
back at the source and coding, and
sort of use that as input to your softmax.
And those are both good ideas, but in both
those cases at the end of the day you're
so doing a softmax over your vocabulary,
based on some hidden state over here.
And the suggestion that's come up is that,
at least in some applications,
and those include machine translation.
But also things like text summarization.
Another thing that might be a good
idea is if you could just decide
that what you wanna do is copy some
word that came from the source sequence.
So, rather than having to have a hidden
state from which you can generate it from
your softmax, you could just say
a good idea in this position
would just be to copy word
17 from the source sequence.
And that might be appropriate if
it's something like a name that you
might have a rare name in the input or
some kind of lone word or
anything like that, that just makes
sense to copy towards the output.
And so, from the hidden state, you're
sort of having a binary logistic model,
which is saying to what
extent do you want to
generate from the vocabulary softmax,
versus do you want to point and copy?
And so this choice here, you could
make it a hard choice, which would
have the same kind of complications for
making it differentiable.
But commonly, the way it's been done
is just being made as a soft choice.
So with probability p,
you're generating for
the vocabulary softmax of probability 1-p.
You're kind of gonna look in to do another
attention distribution over the source and
then you're gonna sort of just be copying
a word where you're placing attention.
And so, that's been kind of
quite an effective mechanism
to sort of just be able
to just copy words for
the input to the output which has sort
of helped for several applications.
So in their paper, where they
are using it for machine translation,
having this kind of pointer model
was giving them about three and
a half BLEU points of performance,
which is a ton, right?
A lot of the time in MT,
if you can get a BLEU point,
you think you're doing really well.
So, that was sort of
a very big improvement.
Another place where it's very effective
is in summarization models, cuz a lot of
the time in the summarization models you
are wanting to sort of copy names of
people, and places and things like that
straight from the input to the output.
But just to give a cautionary
note on the other side.
Interestingly, in the sort of, the Google
Neural Machine Translation paper that came
out recently going along with
their sort of recent release of
their big Neural Machine Translation
Models on the live servers,
that they sort of state that they
weren't having much success from that.
So they say in principle, you can train
a copy model that this approach is both
unreliable at scale, the attention
mechanism is unstable when the network
is deep, and copying may not always
be the best strategy for rare words.
So, they don't seem to found
successful for that method.
So I guess like all things you can try and
see if it works for you.
Okay, so then the final thing I
wanted to talk about was a bit about
work that goes below the word level.
So, right from the beginning of this
course where we started off with
is that we had words and
we were gonna want to build
distributed representations for words.
And that then led into Word2Vec and
all the stuff we talked about there.
And I think it's fair
to say that sort of for
around the sort of period of 2011,
12, 13, 14, that's what everybody
was doing, and that's where we
still start for this course.
But in the last couple of years,
there's now started to be a lot of work
where people are going
below the word level.
And so, I just wanted to
show a bit more about that.
Before doing it,
just sort of a couple of slides of
sort of context of how languages work.
So most of the time in NLP,
with deep learning,
we're sort of working with
language in its written form.
It's easily processed, found data.
And so, something that you're at least
sort of vaguely have in your head,
that human writing systems aren't
all the same kind of system.
So, that they sort of,
various to their nature.
So, that there are many writing
systems that are alphabetic, and
basically phonemic.
Which is sorta if you see what
the letter is how to pronounce that.
So, sorta something like Italian is
also a fairly phonemic writing system.
This example here is from
an Australian language, Wambaya.
But sort of it's jiyawu ngabulu,
that it's sort of the sounds
are just read off the letters.
So, that contrasts with something like
English which is an alphabetic writing
system that as anyone who's spent
time learning English knows, that
the correspondence between letters and
sounds is much more convoluted in English.
So when you have a word like
thorough It's sort of not really
spelled out how it sounds, that sort of
this complex historical stuff going on.
But then,
there are other language systems that
sort of represent slightly bigger units.
So some languages represent syllabic units
or moraic units, so you've kind of got
a syllable Like yawn or gargle, something
that's being represented by one letter.
And this is Inuktitut from Canada.
And then, there are sort of
the syllabic kind of languages.
There sort of two kinds there are ones
where you're having a sort of individual
letter is being used still on the basis
of it's sound like an alphabetic form.
And then,
you have ideographic languages for
which by far the dominant
sample is Chinese, where
you're having the individual character
representing a semantic components.
So that also has a pronunciation, but
there will be lots of characters,
which have the same pronunciation, but
have different meanings attached to them.
And then, you get writing systems
that are sorta a mixture of these.
So something like modern Japanese, you
both have characters like these two and
that one, which are, well, moraic,
that they're sorta being kind
of either just a vowel or
just a syllabic consonant or
a vowel-consonant-vowel form.
But then, you also get the kind of
idiographic characters that Japanese
borrows from Chinese.
So, you get these sort of different
forms of writing systems.
And then there's this question of, well do
your writing systems differentiate words?
So, some writing systems differentiate
words explicitly and some don't.
So, again, Chinese is a famous
example of a language that does not
have any word boundaries marked in the
text, you just get a string of characters.
Interestingly something that
most people are less aware of,
is that if you actually go back to Ancient
Greek as it was written by Ancient Greeks.
Ancient Greek was a language that was
written with no word segmentation.
That the letters were
just a continuous stream.
So it's sort of putting
spaces between words and
Ancient Greek was actually something
that was first done by medieval Monks to
make ancient Greek easier to understand.
So, it was also a no word
segmentation language.
So the question, was Latin segmented?
So, it actually sort of varied.
You can certainly find unsegmented
Latin but it started, they didn't use
spacers but it started to become common to
sort of chisel a little dot between words.
And so then, there was
a representation of word segmentation.
Yeah.
Okay, and
then when you do have word segmentation,
there's still sort of some variety
as to how much you segment things.
And so, there are kind of a couple of
big parameters of variation of that.
So, a lot of languages sort of have little
words that have sort
of functional meaning.
And languages vary, how much they
separate them, or keep them together.
So, a language like French has
these sort of little clitics for
the first sort of pronouns.
Je vous ai, but they sort of the vous for
you is represented with a space, even
though it sort of joins on phonologically,
whereas other languages, such as Arabic,
will sort of take the similar kinds
of clitic pronouns, like we and it.
And sort of just glum them all together
and produce a slightly larger word
even though it's sort of different content
words are space separated in Arabic.
And the other languages vary
is when you have compounds.
So, all languages pretty much have
lots of compounds like life insurance,
company employee.
But in English, we handily still
have the spaces between the words
in Life Insurance Company employees,
whereas, once you go to German,
that's then being written as one
big unsegmented word like that.
Okay, so that's the sorta context for
then going below the word level.
And so, there are lots of reasons
to want to go below the level,
so if you'd like to handle a very large,
open vocabulary It's kind of unappealing
if you need a word vector for every word.
And that's especially true in a lot
of languages where they have a lot of
different word forms that represent
different derivational morphologies,
that's sort of relationships where
you sort of have causatives or
possessives and other things.
Things that joined onto words,
an inflectional relationship.
So you have different forms,
a person, number, and agreement and
things like that.
So here's a very long
check word to the worst
farmable one, which has a lot
of morphology join together.
So if you have languages like that,
it's sort of unappealing to have
word vectors for every word.
Another place that you find things
happening everywhere over modern social
meeting, is people use creative spellings
to express a little bit more emotion.
And so then you have words like good,
with a lot of o's in it.
Which probably isn't in
the vocabulary of your system.
And then when you want to do
other tasks like translation,
you often would like to go
below the word level, so
if you'd like to Christopher into Czech,
you might want it to know it
sort of translates into something
that's sort of related, Krystof.
And that sort of makes sense if
you're at the character level, but
not if you just have sort
of these individual words.
And so
there's a question of how you can start to
deal with some of these phenomena.
So in traditional linguistics, the
smallest semantic units were morphemes.
So big words would be divided up
into their individual morphemes, so
if you had a word like unfortunately,
so if it has a root of fortune and
then you add on the derivational
ending ate to get fortunate.
You add on another derivational ending
to get, unfortunate and then you add on
a final derivational ending, ly, to turn
into an adverb and you get, unfortunately.
So this kind of use of morphology has been
very little studied in deep learning,
though actually Mitchell and me had
a paper with Tom Luong a few years back.
Or we try to use the same kind
of tree structured models to
build up representations of
morphologically complex words.
Most of the time people haven't done that,
but have done simple things.
So a common alternative is to
work with character n-grams.
That's something that actually
has a very long history, so
back in the earlier age of
neural networks, Rumelhart and
McClelland proposed a representation
that they humorously called
wickelphones, and what wickelphones were,
were sort of triples of letters.
And so they proposed this model in
some of their language models for
representing inflections, and learning
inflectional forms of verbs in English,
which was a model that at the time
linguists reacted to very negatively.
But it's an idea that's kind of lived on,
so
there's much more recent
work from Microsoft.
Where essentially they're sort of
using the same kind of letter triples.
The picture from the bottom is
actually from Rumelhart and
McClelland's work, and so
when you start off with a word,
they represent it internally
as a set of letter triples.
So effectively the intermediate layer
encoder is sort of turning any word
into just the set of letter triples
that are contained inside it and
so that gives kind of a flat
representation without needing a sequence.
The nimbleness captures most of
the structure of the word and
it sort of works from there and
can then generate another word.
And this is sort of doing it explicitly
with character trigrams which
are then given vector encoding.
But in some sense the idea is sort of
related to when we looked at convolutional
layers briefly because they were also kind
of combining together multiple letters.
But it was sort of doing it, after it
being turned into a continuous space.
Rather than just separately learning
continuous vector representation for
each letter trigram.
And it seems to have been shown that
using these kind of character n-gram
ideas whether like these wickelphones or
using convolutions can in practice
give you a lot of the gains of morphemes
with perhaps less suffering, okay.
And so what people have found
is that you can generate
word embeddings by building them
up from character embeddings.
And so, if you're able to do that,
you can then generate an embedding for
any new word you see when someone sort of
has some weird sequence of letters and
your social media text.
You can just go letter by letter and
generate a word representation for it.
And in a way that should work better,
because it has some of the gains
that in general people argue for
deep learning.
That since you can then kind
of have words with similar
spellings should have similar embeddings,
so to the extent that they're so
different morphological forms or
related words by derivation.
You should be able to
capture that commonality
into your character embeddings.
And if you're using these kind
of character level models
then you kind of don't have any
problems ever with unknown words
because you can just represent them all.
And so using character level
models in the last couple of years
has just proven to work super,
super successfully.
If I make an admission now, I mean, when
the idea first came up of using character
level models, I was really pretty
skeptical as to whether it would work.
So from the traditional
linguistic perspective but
the idea had always been, well,
yeah, we have sort of morphemes.
We have those units like fortune,
and fortunate, and unfortunate,
that those morphemes like un,
fortune, and ate, they have meaning.
But if you just have letters like a "u".
Or a "f" they don't seem
to have any meaning.
So, it sort of seemed a little
bit difficult to imagine
that you can learn a vector
representation for f and
a vector representation for u and
a vector representation for n.
And then you can start
composing them together, and
getting useful semantic
representations for words.
But what people have found is actually,
some of these modern models like these
LSTM models have sufficiently powerful
composition functions that actually you
can learn very good word representations.
By building them up letter by letter.
So, here's a kind of
a clean version of this.
And so this was some work that was
done by a bunch of people at CMU.
Chris Dyer and colleagues.
And so, in some sense you're
doing the obvious thing.
So for word,
what you're doing is you're running
a bidirectional LSTM over
the characters of the words.
And so you're learning
character representations and
then sort of hidden representations
using the LSTM above those characters.
Then you append the two representations
at the end of those sequences and
just say that's your word
representation for unfortunately.
And then, to sort of train this whole
model you're then embedding it and another
LSTM which is then going to give you
your sequence over words for some task.
So we then have a word level LSTM
which is doing something like
predicting the sequence of
words on the bank was closed.
So you sort of have these.
Doubly recurrent models that are nested
hierarchically inside each other's,
and so they tested out this model for
two tasks.
One was just the language
modeling task and
one was the part of speech tagging task,
and it just worked super successfully.
So in particular, they were able to show
better results for part of speech tagging
than people had shown with word level
neural part of speech tagging models.
And so that makes sense, if you're sort
of say well, this is because we can share
the similarities between words in the
character level model that makes sense.
And it worked though initially as I say,
I was kind of surprised.
Cuz it actually just sort surprised me,
you can learn effective enough character
level embeddings to be able to do this.
I think that's a nice clean version
of this model that works very nicely.
I mean effectively different people
have put character level models
in in all sorts of ways.
So there were slightly earlier
work that was calculating
convolutions over characters
to generate word embeddings.
I think this paper
the character-aware neural
language models came up
earlier as a spotlight paper.
And so this is a more recent and
very complex model where they're first
of all doing convolutions and
then they've got a highway network.
And then they've got an LSTM network,
cuz it's sort of very complex, but again,
it's a character level model.
You can also do simple things,
so just going right back to
the word2vec beginnings that you
can sort of start off with a model
that has exactly the same objective and
loss function as word2vec.
And just say well I'm going to at
the top level train my word2vec model.
But rather than storing a vector for
each word and updating that,
I'm going to kind of like the CMU work.
Say, I'm generating the representation for
each word using a character level LSTM.
And then I'm feeding that into my skip
gram negative sampling algorithm and
that works very nicely as well.
So lots of stuff of that sort, and
so yeah, so these days kind of,
there's just a lot of action and
use of these character level models.
And sort of many people are thinking
it's sort of less necessary to do word
level stuff.
And so for my final bits, I just sort of
thought I'd show you again then back to
a bit of neural machine translation
of a couple of the ways that people
are incorporating these character
level models or sub word level models.
So there are sort of two trends really,
one weight is to sort of build neural
machine translation models which have
sub-word units, but the same architecture.
And the other way is to have sort
of architectures explicitly put in
characters.
And so I just wanna show you
one example of both of those.
So one of idea that's
been quite prominent,
which sort of gets back more to
having something like morphology,
is this notion that's referred
to as byte pair encoding.
And the name byte pair encoding
is kind of a misnomer, but
it sort of comes from
the inspiration of this algorithm.
So byte pair encoding is
a compression algorithm that has been
developed quite separately,
just as a way to compress stuff.
And the idea of byte pair encoding is
that you're learning a code book for
compression by allocating
codes to common sequences.
So you look for common pairs of bytes and
you allocate a code book place to them.
And so someone had the idea,
maybe we could run this algorithm, but
do it with character
ngrams rather than byte.
And so this is how it works, so you
stop with the vocabulary of characters.
And then you replace the most frequent
character ngram with the new ngram.
So if our dictionary is like this we have
the words low, lower, newest, wildest.
And they occur that often,
we can then say well we start with a basic
character in the vocab, that's them.
And so now, we're gonna look for
the commonest character bigram, and
their allocated as a new
thing in our vocabulary.
So here,
the commonest character bigram is es,
that occurs nine times, so
we add that to our vocabulary.
And then we look again and
say est that also occurs nine times,
let's add that to our vocabulary.
Then we ask what's still commonest?
That's l, o seven times,
add that to our vocabulary, and so
you keep on doing this up to some limit.
So you sort of say, okay, the size
vocabulary I wanna learn is 30,000 words.
And so some of the things that's in your
vocabulary will actually end up as words.
Cuz you will have sort of vocabulary
items like the and in and of,
if you're doing English.
But the other things that you're
getting are just letters and
word pieces that are kind of things
that are pieces of morphology.
So it's kind of an empirical
way to learn a vocab.
And again you have problem with unknown
words, cuz at the end of the day you
have these sort of individual letter
that are part of your vocabulary.
And so you can always do
things just with the letters.
And so that kind of automatically
decide of vocab which is sort of
no longer word base in
the conventional linguistic way.
When you wanna translate
the piece of text,
you just use that vocab and
you greedily chop from the left.
You chop off pieces that
you can find in your vocab,
preferring the longest ones first.
So it's a very simple way
to maintain a small vocab.
But it was actually employed very
successfully by these people
at the university of Edinborough.
And so at the 2016 workshop on machine
translation a number of the language
pairs were won by the Edinborough
team using this byte pair encoding.
And actually, it turns out that again,
if we say, gee,
what is Google doing in their
neural machine translation system,
that they're actually essentially using
a variant of byte pairing encoding?
So they've got a slightly different
criterion of when to join letter sequences
together that's more probabilistic
rather than just count based.
And it's essentially the same kind
of byte pairing encoding idea.
Okay, and so then the final bit that
I wanted to show you is some work
that Thang Luong and me did last year.
Which was trying to get the benefits
of a character level system
while also still allowing user
translate at the word level.
And so the hope of this was to
gain the best of both worlds by
having the performance of
a character level system while
having the efficiency
of a word level system.
So something I haven't mentioned so far,
is that even though you can get very good
performance results by working
directly at the character level.
A problem of it is it tends to
make things much, much slower.
So if you sort of think back to
that example of saying when I said,
you can train a word2vec style model.
But instead of having word vectors
you'd have a little LSTM where you
build a word representation
from characters.
You can do that, but
the difference is we have to go
doing standard word2vec training.
You're just looking up a word's
representation then computing with that.
If you have to run a whole LSTM to
calculate the words representation,
that's a much more
computationally expensive thing.
So purely character-based models
tend to take well over an order of
magnitude longer to train and
well over And a similar kind of slow
down at runtime as well, because you sort
of are going character by character.
Yeah.
So the question is how can you
evaluate character based models,
can you sort of do the equivalent
of word similarity?
I think there's nothing
that you can really
do that directly does
it on the characters.
But I mean,
you don't have to go all the way to say,
let's run them in neural machine
translation system and see if it helps.
I mean, the thing that people have done.
And again, this has proven that
character based encoding works pretty
successfully is to do word
similarity based evaluations.
So you can say, okay,
let's build up representations of
words using the character, LSTM and
then see how good the result is as a word
similarity measure using the kind of word
similarity metrics that we talked about
when we're doing things like word2vec.
And I think the results are that it
doesn't work quite as well as the best
results that people have gotten
from word-level models, but
it actually works pretty close.
And so that's again, where it sort of
seems to having done this successfully and
gives you the advantage to
having this open vocab.
So, the question is how
well do the character
vectors generalize across tasks.
Well, I think they generalize,
as well as the kind of word vectors that
we train by something like word2vec.
I mean, certainly people have used them
across tasks by doing different things
like language modeling versus
part of speech tagging and
that's worked completely fine.
So, this hybrid model.
Again, it was a kind of a hierarchical
character and word based model.
So, the heart of it in the middle
is that there's a word-level
neural machine translation system.
And so, it was working over
a fixed moderate size vocabulary.
And so,
that's going to have unknowns in it.
So when you can sort of generate
an unknown vocabulary item and
you can feed that through in
the generation time and encoding time,
you're gonna have words for which there
are no word vectors which here we're
having it be for cute though,
maybe cute would be in your vocabulary.
So if you had a word not
in your word vocabulary,
then what you're doing is then saying,
okay,
well, we can do that by
having character level LSTMs.
And so, there are two cases.
So if a word is not in your input
vocabulary, you can just as
a pre-processing step run a character LSTM
that generates a word representation for
it and then you'll just say that's
it's word representation and
you can run it through the encoder.
The situation was slightly
different on the decoder side.
So on the decoder side,
what would happen is the word-level LSTM
could chose to generate an unknown word.
And if it generated an unknown word,
you then sort of took the hidden state
representation and used that as
a starting point of another character
level LSTM which could then generate
a word character by character.
And something that we didn't do for
efficiency is you might think you'd want
to take the resulting meaning here and
feed that back into the next timestamp and
that might have been a good idea, but
we were interested in trying to
make this as fast as possible.
So actually in this model,
that representation was only
used to generate the word and
it was still this sort of unk that was
being fed back into the next timestamp.
So, standard kind of word-level
beam search and then you're doing
a char-level beam search for
when you're spilling that one out.
And so let's again, sort of showed
the strength of character level models.
So, this shows some results
from English to Czech.
And if you're wanting to
do character level models,
Czechs are really good
language to look at,
because of the fact that has a lot of
morphology and complex words forms.
So, here are some results from machine
translation systems on English-Czech for
the 2015 workshop on machine translation.
So the system that won the competition
in 2015, it got 18.8 BLEU.
There had been an entry that did
sort of word-level neural machine
translation in WMT 2015,
which didn't do quite as well.
That's maybe not a condemnation of
word-level neural machine translation,
cuz it turns out the winning system had
been trained on 30 times as much data and
was an ensemble of three systems.
So, maybe the word level NMT
was pretty good by comparison.
But nicely by putting in
this sort of hybrid word and
character level system that, that was
able to sort of boost the performance of
the NMT system trained on the same amount
of data as this one by 2.5 BLEU points,
putting it well above
the performance of the best system.
So, this then is just showing you one
example of the kind of places you can win
in Czech.
So the source sentence is her 11-year
old daughter, Shani Bart said,
it felt a little bit weird.
And so in Czech,
11-year-old is turning into this
one morphologically complex word.
And so if you're sort of running with
a medium size vocabulary in a neural MT
system, well,
you're just gonna unks full of this stuff.
And so, that's not very good.
Well, one solution to that would be say,
hey, maybe we can copy and
sometimes that's useful.
Cuz if you can copy Shani,
that's kinda good,
cuz then you just get the right
word copied across, but
doing copying isn't a good strategy
if you're copying across 11-year old.
Because that sort of fails badly,
generating what you want.
But nicely, if you're running
this hybrid word character model,
you could actually get this word correct,
because it could actually just generate
it character by character as an unknown
word and give you the correct answer.
Tada, that is my central result for
the day.
And so remember, get help on projects.
Hope you have good luck finishing,
last lecture which is on Thursday.